---


---

<p>layout     : page<br>
title: how does the linker find the dependent shared libraries</p>
<p>When you compile a hello world problem, it has to link the standard C library at least. How does the linker know the dependence of HelloWorld?</p>
<h2 id="dt_needed-entry-in-.dynamic">DT_NEEDED entry in .dynamic</h2>
<p>To use a specific shared library, you have to specify its name to provide symbol definition for a placeholder when compiling the program.</p>
<pre><code>gcc hello.c -lc -o hello
</code></pre>
<p>(Though, compiler always implicitly add ‘-lc’)
Then, the  linker will record the dependent shared libraries in the <strong>dynamic section</strong>.</p>
<pre><code>readelf -d hello
</code></pre>
<pre><code>Dynamic section at offset 0xdf0 contains 26 entries:
  Tag        Type                         Name/Value
 0x0000000000000001 (NEEDED)             Shared library: [libc.so.6]

</code></pre>
<p>Entry <strong>DE_NEEDED</strong> records the <strong>SONAME</strong> of libc.
What is SONAME? and How does a linker know the version of the shared library?</p>
<h2 id="version-of-shared-library">Version of shared library</h2>
<p>In order to remain the ABI compatibility,  UNIX defines a convention about how to number the version of a shared library.</p>
<blockquote>
<p>libABC.so.x.y.z</p>
</blockquote>
<ul>
<li>library name(ABC)</li>
<li>major number(x): Distinct major numbers are incompatible.</li>
<li>minor number(y): Higher minor number is compatible with lower one.</li>
<li>release number(z): All release numbers are compitible.</li>
</ul>
<p>Example:</p>
<ul>
<li>libABC.so.1 is incompatible with libABC.so.2.</li>
<li>libABC.so.1.2 is compatible with libABC.so.1.1.</li>
<li>libABC.so.1.1 is compatible with libABC.so.1.2.</li>
<li>libABC.so.1.2.2 is compatible with libABC.so.1.2.1.</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="soname">SONAME</h2>
<p>To reduce the space, system won’t have all versions of shared libraries.
Since higher minor number is compatible with lower one and release numbers are all compatible.</p>
<p>SONAME records only library name and the major number.<br>
System will create a symbolic link pointing to the shared library with the highest minor number.</p>
<p>Example:<br>
libABC.so.1.2.2 and libABC.so.1.1.1.<br>
Both have the SONAME as libABC.so.1.<br>
libABC.so.1 will point to libABC.so.1.2.2(The highest minor number).\</p>
<p>In the above case, linker only records the SONAME, and only one shared library exists in the system.</p>
<h2 id="conclusion">Conclusion</h2>
<p>ABI compatibility is hard to maintain since the language feature and architecutre convention.<br>
Therefore, version control of shared library is a critical issue.<br>
UNIX defines three kinds of version number so that we can know whether shared libraries are compatible or not.</p>

