
---
layout  : page
title   : "BBC 6 minutes #1, foodie"
date       : 2018-04-20
author      : "pshung"
---


### Reference
[Are you a foodie ?](http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish/english/features/6-minute-english/ep-180412)

### Vocabularies
* foodie: someone who is very interested in all aspects of food from buying, cooking to eating.
* romantic: describe an imagined ideal situation
* in danger of: the possibility of something bad happening
* tick: make a mark on a list.

### Sentences
* I will reveal the answer a little bit later.
* They like using good ingredients and they are probably not fans of fast food.
* I would describe a foodie as someone who has strong interest in food.
	* someone who is interested in 
	* someone who has interest in
* They like preparing it as well as eating it.
	* one of Britain's top chefs.
* How does she describe people who say they are foodies?
* She is saying people who say they are foodies may not actually know that much about food.
* What is her description of a foodie?
* We normally think of the word romantic when we're talking about love and relationship, but that is not what is means here, is it?
* What is she worried about?
	* What does she worry about?


### Summary
Foodies, a word used to descible someone who has strong intereset in food, including prepration, buying, and cooking.
I think my wife is so-called foodie, because she loves eating, cooking and studing of ingredents. She buys a lot of cooking books and watches a lot of TV show about cooking.
She cooks for my family almost everyday and prepares the meal box for me. Though, she is a bit romantic, she
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTExMjg1MDI0ODcsMTc2MTQ4MzQ4OSwtNj
I5NTk1NTYyLDU0NTc5MDc0Miw4Mjk4MTIxNzEsLTY5ODI0MDU3
MiwtNjE2NzYyMjY4LC0xNzM4OTM1NzkyLDg1NjAyNTg5OSwtMT
Y3MzI1NzU0XX0=
-->