---
layout  : page
title   : "TVM"
date    : 2019-03-13
author  : "pshung"
---
# 2019-03-14
# Does tvm support learning?
NNVM seems not fully support training. [link](https://discuss.tvm.ai/t/dose-tvm-support-training-models/225/8)    
How about relay? seems to be in progress [link](https://discuss.tvm.ai/t/status-of-gradients-and-training-in-relay/1195)   
# 2019-03-13
# build TVM with llvm 
```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/dmlc/tvm
cd tvm; mkdir build
cp ../cmake/config.make .
set USE_LLVM to the path of the desired llvm-config
make -j8
```
If building is successfully, four primary shared libraries will be generated.   
libtvm.so: the core compilation stack of tvm   
libnnvm_compiler.so: the graph level IR (has been replaced by Relay IR)    
libtvm_runtime.so: the deployment runtime   
libtvm_topi.so: the NN operator repository.  

# run example code howto_deploy with RISC-V.
enter app/howto_deploy.
change the target device to risc-v backend.
```python
target = tvm.target.create('llvm -device=riscv_cpu -target=riscv64-elf -mcpu=generic-rv64 --system-lib')
```
If TVM building is successfully. file test_addone_sys.o will be generated which contains RISC-V ISA.

compile the TVM runtime with RISC-V toolchain
```bash
riscv64-linux-g++ tvm_runtime_pack.cc 
```

compile the user program and link with model and runtime.
```
riscv64-linux-g++ cpp_deploy.cc lib/test_addone_sys.o lib/libtvm_runtime_pack.o -lpthread -latomic
```

run the compiled program with QEMU-RISC-V
```bash
qemu-riscv64 -L riscv64-linux/sysroot/ lib/cpp_deploy_pack
```

# run example code bundle_deploy with RISC-V
enter apps/bundle_deploy  
rewrite the build_model.py, download caffe2 resnet50 model. compile with NNVM for RISC-V target.   
It will generate model.o (resnet50 model in TVM runtime module), graph.json (describe the model structure), params.bin(the filter weight)

The example uses **xxd -i** to format the graph.json and prarms.bin into C-style static array and will compile them into final executable. The approach is useful when target lacks file system or the ability to dynamically allocate memory.   
However, this approach requires huge memory whiling compiling. (It takes 18G memory in my environment). If no enought memory in your system, the process is going to be killed.
Rewrite the code to open the params.bin at runtime so that the compilation time is reduced.
The example generates random input data. Rewrite the code to load a specified png file using libpng.

